Update Azure-docs with Application Insights JS SDK Snippet SDK Load Failure error details (#54045)
Azure/azure-content: articles/azure-monitor/app/javascript-troubleshoot.md

---

> title: Troubleshoot Azure Application Insights for JavaScript web apps

Reviewer: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/43887470/81140426-2160bc00-8f1e-11ea-87e6-fe79a36241ce.png)
Would this article go here in the YAML? Would we call it "Troubleshoot" similar to Java?

Author: I copied the Java approach as we need a direct link that the help link (go.microsoft.com) needs to link to.
I'm also not a fan of having the users and information jumping around all over the place.

What is the URL for Yaml as it is not easily discoverable (we never used it for Identity)

description: Troubleshooting guide - monitoring live Java apps with Application Insights.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.author: newylie
ms.date: 05/01/2020
---

# Troubleshooting and Q and A for Application Insights for JavaScript web apps
Questions or problems with [Application Insights for web pages][javascript]? Here are some tips.

## SDK Load Failure

__SDK Load Failure: Failed to load Application Insights SDK script (see stack for details)__

This reported browser exception is created and reported by the snippet (v3 or later) when it detects that the primary SDK script either failed to download or failed to initialize. Simplistically, this means that your end-users client (browser) was unable to download the Application Insights SDK and/or initialize from the identified hosting page and therefore no telemetry or events (other than this exception) will be reported.

![](./media/javascript/sdk-load-failure-overview.png)

> This exception is supported on all major browsers that support the fetch() API or XMLHttpRequest, this therefore explicitly excludes IE 8 and below, so you will not get this type of exception reported from those browsers (unless your environment includes a fetch polyfill).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> This exception is supported on all major browsers that support the fetch() API or XMLHttpRequest, this therefore explicitly excludes IE 8 and below, so you will not get this type of exception reported from those browsers (unless your environment includes a fetch polyfill).
```

> **So what does this exception mean?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**What does this exception mean?**
```

> There are many possible reasons for this exception to be reported, we will cover some of the known issues as well the details to diagnose the root cause of the problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

![](./media/javascript/sdk-load-failure-exception.png)

The stack details includes the basic information with the URLs being used by the end-user and is formatted as below
```
SDK LOAD Failure: Failed to load Application Insights SDK script (See stack for details)
Snippet failed to load [<CDN Endpoint>] -- Telemetry is disabled
Help Link: <Help Link>
Host: <Host URL>
Endpoint: <Endpoint URL>
```

| Name | Description
| ---- | -----------
| CDN Endpoint | This is the complete URL that was used (and failed) to download the SDK
| Help Link | A help link URL that links to this page
| Host URL | The complete URL of the page that the end-user was using
| Endpoint URL | This is the URL that was used to report the exception, this value may be helpful in identifying whether the hosting page was accessed from the public internet or a private cloud.

> ### Diagnosing the root cause

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Why did this exception occur?
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many possible reasons for this exception to be reported, and the most common ones are described below with links to corresponding troubleshooting steps.
```

> #### Check if the Application Insights JS CDN has been blocked

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### The Application Insights JS CDN has been blocked
```

> This is generally NOT the most common cause for this exception, however, as it is the only issue where there is no other immediate possible workaround by you or your end-users it is listed first so that it can and should be ruled out first. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While this is typically NOT the cause for this exception, we recommend you rule it out first since there's no immediate workaround by you or your end-users. 
```

> - [Check if the CDN is blacklisted](#cdn-blacklisted)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#####Diagnose
- [Check if the CDN is blacklisted](#cdn-blacklisted)
```

> Longer term solutions to avoid this problem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#####Troubleshoot
```

- [Host the SDK on you own CDN](#host-sdk)
- [Use NPM packages to embed the Application Insights SDK](#use-npm).

#### Intermittent network connectivity failure

> Yes, we know this may seem like a _"not my problem"_ scenario, but in this case it is actually the most common reason for seeing this exception,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the most common reason for seeing this exception, though it may seem largely out of the developers control. It's especially common in a mobile roaming scenario where the user looses network connectivity intermittently.
```

> especially in a mobile roaming scenario where the user looses network connectivity intermittently. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

To minimize this we have implemented Cache-Control headers on all of the CDN files so that once the end-users browser has downloaded the current version of the SDK they should not need to re-download the entire file again and instead it will re-use the previously obtained copy (see [How caching works](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cdn/cdn-how-caching-works)). If the caching check fails or there has been a new release then your end-users browser will need and download the updated version, so you may see a background level of _"noise"_ in the check failure scenario or a temporary spike when a new release occurs and is made generally available (deployed to the CDN). 

> Note: Due to the caching headers on the CDN files and depending on how often and when your users access your site, not all of your end-users will attempt to download the newer version at the same point in time, so reports may be staggered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> Due to the caching headers on the CDN files and depending on how often and when your users access your site, not all of your end-users will attempt to download the newer version at the same point in time, so reports may be staggered.
```

If this exception is persistent and is occurring across many of your users (diagnosed by a rapid and sustained level of this exception being reported) along with a reduction in normal client telemetry, then intermittent network connectivity issues is _not-likely_ to be the true cause of the problem and you should continue diagnosing with the other known possible issues below.

> - [Intermittent Network failure](#intermittent-network-failure)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#####Troubleshoot
- [Intermittent Network failure](#intermittent-network-failure)
```

- [Use NPM packages to embed the Application Insights SDK](#use-npm).

#### Application Insights JS CDN is blocked (by End-User - blacklisted by browser; installed blocker; Personal firewall)

> Check if your end-users have installed a browser plug-in (typically some form of Ad/Malware/Popup blocker); blocked (or not white-listed) the Application Insights CDN endpoint in their browser or proxy; or configured a firewall rule which is causing the CDN domain for the SDK to be blocked (or the DNS entry to not be resolved), if they have any of these configured you will need to work with them (or provide documentation) to allow the CDN endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#####Diagnose
Check if your end-users have installed a browser plug-in (typically some form of Ad/Malware/Popup blocker); blocked (or not white-listed) the Application Insights CDN endpoint in their browser or proxy; or configured a firewall rule which is causing the CDN domain for the SDK to be blocked (or the DNS entry to not be resolved), if they have any of these configured you will need to work with them (or provide documentation) to allow the CDN endpoints.
```

It is also possible that the plug-in they have installed is using the [public blacklist](#cdn-blacklisted), which is why that option is listed first, if you get here then it's most likely some other manually configured solution or it's using a private blacklist.

> Note: For this exception to be reported, they would not be blocking the reporting endpoint (otherwise you would not see the exception).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE] 
> For this exception to be reported, they would not be blocking the reporting endpoint (otherwise you would not see the exception).
```

> - [Add exceptions for CDN endpoints](#add-exceptions-for-cdn-endpoints)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#####Troubleshoot
- [Add exceptions for CDN endpoints](#add-exceptions-for-cdn-endpoints)
```

- [Check if CDN has been blacklisted](#cdn-blacklisted)
- [Host the SDK on you own CDN](#host-sdk)
- [Use NPM packages to embed the Application Insights SDK](#use-npm).

#### Application Insights CDN is blocked (by Corporate firewall)

If your end-users are on a corporate network then they are most likely behind some form of firewall solution and it's likely that their IT department has implemented some form of internet filtering system. In this case you will need to work with them to allow the necessary rules for your end-users.

> Note: For this exception to be reported, they would not be blocking the reporting endpoint (otherwise you would not see the exception).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> For this exception to be reported, they would not be blocking the reporting endpoint (otherwise you would not see the exception).
```

> - [Add exceptions for CDN endpoints for corporations](#corporate-exceptions-for-cdn-endpoints)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#####Troubleshoot
- [Add exceptions for CDN endpoints for corporations](#corporate-exceptions-for-cdn-endpoints)
```

Author: I originally had headings like this to identify the different diagnosis / solutions as well as immediate and longer terms options. However, I removed them as it made each item a little disjoint. Especially as a lot of the diagnosis / solutions are shared, so when scrolling down the page it wasn't obvious when the known problems stopped and the diagnosis / solutions started... This is also why I'm using the >> sections to denote the diagnosis / solutions.

Author: Ok, I've reformatted the way the troubleshooting steps are highlighted and I'm adding in the troubleshooting header.

- [Check if CDN has been blacklisted](#cdn-blacklisted)
- [Host the SDK on you own CDN](#host-sdk)
- [Use NPM packages to embed the Application Insights SDK](#use-npm).

#### Application Insights CDN outage

> You can confirm this scenario by simply attempting to access the CDN endpoint directly from the browser (eg. https://az416426.vo.msecnd.net/scripts/b/ai.2.min.js) from a different location to that of your end-users (probably from you own development machine -- assuming that your organization has not blocked this domain).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#####Diagnose
You can confirm this scenario by simply attempting to access the CDN endpoint directly from the browser (eg. https://az416426.vo.msecnd.net/scripts/b/ai.2.min.js) from a different location to that of your end-users (probably from you own development machine -- assuming that your organization has not blocked this domain).
```

> - [Create a support ticket](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/support/create-ticket/) with details of the outage and the CDN endpoint that is experiencing the issue. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#####Troubleshoot
- [Create a support ticket](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/support/create-ticket/) with details of the outage and the CDN endpoint that is experiencing the issue. 
```

> #### SDK Load Failure: Possible Solutions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Troubleshooting Steps
```

>>
>> Note: You will need to use this approach (or [Host the SDK on you own CDN](#host-sdk)) if your users are using a [private cloud](https://azure.microsoft.com/overview/what-is-a-private-cloud/) as they most likely will not have access to the public internet.
> ---

> ##### Host SDK
> 
>> Rather than your end-users downloading the Application Insights SDK from the public CDN you could host the Application Insights SDK from your own CDN endpoint. If using this approach it is recommended that you use a specific version (ai.2.#.#.min.js) so that it's easier to identify which version you are using, it is also recommended that update it on a regular basis to the current version (ai.2.min.js) so you can leverage any bug fixes and new features that become available.
>>
>> Note: You will need to use this approach (or [Use NPM packages](#use-npm)) if your users are using a [private cloud](https://azure.microsoft.com/overview/what-is-a-private-cloud/) as they most likely will not have access to the public internet.
> ---

> > ##### CDN Blacklisted

Reviewer: This is actually a "diagnose" step mixed in with the troubleshooting steps. I suggest you break it out and add it to the article above under a #####diagnose header.

Author: There is no distinction between diagnosis and solution (i.e. collectively troubleshooting), they are grouped more deliberately as possible solutions as the developers can choose which option they want to try.

So generally I've tried to phrased then as 
- if you have this (or can confirm this) then 
- this is what you should (or can) do

Where the "Known Issues" are more of
- description of the problem
- collection of possible solutions for this case

Where this one originally item only had create-ticket link, I'm updating to include a new possible solution.

Author: This one while it could be seen as a issue, is referenced from multiple issues. So it contains what I'm now calling the "toubleshooting steps" as suggested.
